---
layout:     post
title:      Feedback Loops and Time Horizons
date:       2018-07-15
summary:    A little tangent on feedback loops. 
categories: general
---
I learned about the concept of a feedback loop during first year. I don't remember where or how I learned it, but I do remember pondering that this is a pretty cool idea. I set the concept aside in my mind and never really thought about it again until this past year where I went on a little journey of learning.
<br>
<br>
Feedback loops are the basis of many cool concepts such as closed loop systems in robotics. When we learn how to do something after making mistakes, we are using the concept of a feedback loop to learn. This was often the case when doing problems in school or learning how to ride a bike.
<br>
<br>
Humans use feedback loops more than you might think. This idea can be used for good or bad.
<br>
<br>
 When we get likes on our post/tweets on fb/twitter/ig, we feel good about it, and so we tweet/post more. The dopamine hit we get when people approve of our content provides positive feedback to our brain, thus initiating another post. This entire feedback loop was designed to help us stay on these platforms for longer, and is based on the human psyche of wanting to feel important. There is more to it than what I have described, but this is just one dimension of how human feedback loops can be used against us.
<br>
<br>
Athletes or people who like to stay fit also use feedback loops. If you ever went on the journey of trying to get fit, you might be familiar with the high one gets when they start noticing positive results from exercise. We tend to get more motivated when we see that the work we are putting in towards a goal is yielding positive results. When I was trying to get fit, I noticed this immediately. When I started seeing my weight go down, and feeling more energized I was motivated to continue working out because of the positive reinforcement. This is another way humans use feedback loops, and in this case in a positive way.  
<br>
<br>
We can leverage this idea of feedback loops to trick ourselves into doing things that are good for us. However, doing so is much easier said than done. A lot of feedback loops that work in our favor (positive results from working out, reading, sleeping more, eating healthier, etc.) have a much larger time horizon (positive feedback time) than something like getting a kill in fortnite. It takes weeks, months or even years to notice visible benefits of doing activities with positive returns versus while only taking seconds to get a positive feedback from playing video games in the form of xp.
<br>
<br>
It is difficult to think in terms of long time horizons for us homo sapiens, and it is mostly due to our nature of initially being hunters and gatherers. Our ancestors needed to figure out how to get food for the next few hours, while also figuring out where the pack would sleep in the night. We are inherently impatient beings, and think in the short term. Those who are able to think long term tend to be most successful. Jeff Bezos and Warren Buffet are really good at this, and are some of the richest people in the world. The difficult thing with having a long time horizon is that it takes a long time to complete a single feedback loop, and so the total number of feedback loops and improvements made for a given amount of time is lower than someone who 'fails fast'.
<br>
<br>
This 'fail fast' mantra has a small time horizon for a complete feedback loop, which means the total number of loops completed in a given amount of time is greater than that of the long time horizon feedback loop. Facebook and many other companies employ this technique to learn quickly and adapt. Facebook has about 1000 versions of its product running live, with each version employing different features and tools. These features/tools are presumably analyzed for their impact on users and based on the results are deployed to everyone.
<br>
<br>
Both long and short time horizon feedback loops have their pros and cons. I personally think that for humans, having a long time horizon is in our best interest but if you're building a product/company, then having a short time horizon is key as you tend to have little runway to work with. Arguments can be made against this, and both sides have their own merit. One has to look at the situation and apply the correct length of time horizon as each situation differs in requirements.
<br>
<br>
I hope you learned something new or at least thought about feedback loops differently after reading this. This may have been really hard to follow, so I apologize for that as it was written without any real planning and I'm frankly a bad writer.
<br>
<br>
I'm looking for all the feedback I can get, so please email me if you have anything to say (I have thick skin so go all out if you'd like).
Cheers. 
