---
layout:     post
title:      Introduction
date:       2020-11-01
---
## Hello peeps!

 This is actually my second attempt at this. I did something similar in 2018 when I was on a year-long internship at a medical device firm- but life hit and it kind of died. I did keep writing in private- but I never published anything. I hope to publish some of those pieces once I iron them out.
<br>
<br>
**Going back to 2020:** I graduated this year with an engineering degree (+iron ring- it's a *Canadian* thing).  I moved from my home in Ontario, Canada to the Bay Area in July to work on autonomous vehicles. It's been almost 6 months since that happened and life has only gotten more *exciting*. That last bit was sarcasm for those that don't know me well. The global pandemic, the election, California literally being on fire for 2 weeks, and so much more has definitely had an impact on my myself and many others. Despite the tough circumstances of 2020- it's also come with many blessings AH. With this year nearing an end, I'm hoping things calm down and 2021 healing begins. In reality, we probably won't return to the way life was pre-pandemic- but one can be hopeful.
<br>
<br>
I find that writing (on paper or electronically) is really useful to clear your thoughts and really make sense of things that are jumbled in your head. I learned about this from a [screenshot](http://blogs.ltcrevolution.com/signature-learning/files/2016/09/bezos.jpg) of an email Jeff Bezos sent out during the 'early' days of Amazon (actually close to day 1). Try it out- maybe this may change your life? As with my last attempt at this, I hope to improve my writing and thought process so both are clearer to others. I have a very jumbled way of thinking, and in my head it all makes sense but I am realizing that is not the case for others. Perhaps this thought experiment may change that.
<br>
<br>
I'm interested in finance, technology, and the intersection of both. You will find content mostly related to those topics, with the occasional tangent post about something completely unrelated that has caught my eye. Hopefully those who stumble upon my posts will find something of value- or at least find it amusing.
<br>
<br>
